README.md, before:

<img src=".github/nhm-logo.svg" align="left" width="150px" height="100px" hspace="40"/>

# ckanext-graph

[![Travis](https://img.shields.io/travis/NaturalHistoryMuseum/ckanext-graph/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/NaturalHistoryMuseum/ckanext-graph)
[![Coveralls](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/NaturalHistoryMuseum/ckanext-graph/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://coveralls.io/github/NaturalHistoryMuseum/ckanext-graph)
[![CKAN](https://img.shields.io/badge/ckan-2.9.0a-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/ckan/ckan)

_A CKAN extension that adds a graph view for resources._


# Overview

Adds graph views for resources on a CKAN instance. Two types of graph are available: temporal (a line graph showing count over time based on a specified date field), and categorical (a bar chart showing counts for various values in a specified field).


**NB**: the current version of this extension only works with the Natural History Museum's [ElasticSearch datastore CKAN backend](https://github.com/NaturalHistoryMuseum/ckanext-versioned-datastore). _However_, it is designed to be extensible, so if you would like to use this extension with a different backend (e.g. the standard PostgreSQL datastore), please see the [Extending](#extending) section.


# Installation

Path variables used below:
- `$INSTALL_FOLDER` (i.e. where CKAN is installed), e.g. `/usr/lib/ckan/default`
- `$CONFIG_FILE`, e.g. `/etc/ckan/default/development.ini`

1. Clone the repository into the `src` folder:

  ```bash
  cd $INSTALL_FOLDER/src
  git clone https://github.com/NaturalHistoryMuseum/ckanext-graph.git
  ```

2. Activate the virtual env:

  ```bash
  . $INSTALL_FOLDER/bin/activate
  ```

3. Install the requirements from requirements.txt:

  ```bash
  cd $INSTALL_FOLDER/src/ckanext-graph
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```

4. Run setup.py:

  ```bash
  cd $INSTALL_FOLDER/src/ckanext-graph
  python setup.py develop
  ```

5. Add 'graph' to the list of plugins in your `$CONFIG_FILE`:

  ```ini
  ckan.plugins = ... graph
  ```

# Configuration

There is currently only one option that can be specified in your .ini config file.

Name|Description|Options|Default
--|--|--|--
`ckanext.graph.backend`|The name of the backend to use (currently only `elasticsearch` is implemented)|elasticsearch, sql|elasticsearch


# Usage

## Templates

The view will be added as an option with no further configuration necessary. However, if you wish to override or add content to the template, you can extend `templates/graph/view.html`:

```html+jinja
{% ckan_extends %}

{% block my_new_block %}
  <p>Look, some exciting new content.</p>
{% endblock %}
```


# Extending

To use this extension with a datastore backend other than the ElasticSearch backend already implemented, you'll have to subclass from `Query` in `ckanext-graph/ckanext/graph/db.py`.

An unimplemented class for SQL queries is already in the file as an example:

```python
class SqlQuery(Query):
    @property
    def _date_query(self):
        raise NotImplementedError()

    @property
    def _count_query(self):
        raise NotImplementedError()

    def run(self):
        raise NotImplementedError()
```

If you add a new class, you'll have to add it to the dictionary in `Query.new()` method to make it available as a configurable option.

If you do this, please submit a pull request! Contributions are always welcome.


# Testing

_Test coverage is currently extremely limited._

To run the tests, use nosetests inside your virtualenv. The `--nocapture` flag will allow you to see the debug statements.
```bash
nosetests --ckan --with-pylons=$TEST_CONFIG_FILE --where=$INSTALL_FOLDER/src/ckanext-graph --nologcapture --nocapture
```

Commit message:

Switch tests over to docker-compose and bump version

README.md, after:

<img src=".github/nhm-logo.svg" align="left" width="150px" height="100px" hspace="40"/>

# ckanext-graph

[![Travis](https://img.shields.io/travis/NaturalHistoryMuseum/ckanext-graph/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/NaturalHistoryMuseum/ckanext-graph)
[![Coveralls](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/NaturalHistoryMuseum/ckanext-graph/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://coveralls.io/github/NaturalHistoryMuseum/ckanext-graph)
[![CKAN](https://img.shields.io/badge/ckan-2.9.1-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/ckan/ckan)

_A CKAN extension that adds a graph view for resources._


# Overview

Adds graph views for resources on a CKAN instance. Two types of graph are available: temporal (a line graph showing count over time based on a specified date field), and categorical (a bar chart showing counts for various values in a specified field).


**NB**: the current version of this extension only works with the Natural History Museum's [ElasticSearch datastore CKAN backend](https://github.com/NaturalHistoryMuseum/ckanext-versioned-datastore). _However_, it is designed to be extensible, so if you would like to use this extension with a different backend (e.g. the standard PostgreSQL datastore), please see the [Extending](#extending) section.


# Installation

Path variables used below:
- `$INSTALL_FOLDER` (i.e. where CKAN is installed), e.g. `/usr/lib/ckan/default`
- `$CONFIG_FILE`, e.g. `/etc/ckan/default/development.ini`

1. Clone the repository into the `src` folder:

  ```bash
  cd $INSTALL_FOLDER/src
  git clone https://github.com/NaturalHistoryMuseum/ckanext-graph.git
  ```

2. Activate the virtual env:

  ```bash
  . $INSTALL_FOLDER/bin/activate
  ```

3. Install the requirements from requirements.txt:

  ```bash
  cd $INSTALL_FOLDER/src/ckanext-graph
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```

4. Run setup.py:

  ```bash
  cd $INSTALL_FOLDER/src/ckanext-graph
  python setup.py develop
  ```

5. Add 'graph' to the list of plugins in your `$CONFIG_FILE`:

  ```ini
  ckan.plugins = ... graph
  ```

# Configuration

There is currently only one option that can be specified in your .ini config file.

Name|Description|Options|Default
--|--|--|--
`ckanext.graph.backend`|The name of the backend to use (currently only `elasticsearch` is implemented)|elasticsearch, sql|elasticsearch


# Usage

## Templates

The view will be added as an option with no further configuration necessary. However, if you wish to override or add content to the template, you can extend `templates/graph/view.html`:

```html+jinja
{% ckan_extends %}

{% block my_new_block %}
  <p>Look, some exciting new content.</p>
{% endblock %}
```


# Extending

To use this extension with a datastore backend other than the ElasticSearch backend already implemented, you'll have to subclass from `Query` in `ckanext-graph/ckanext/graph/db.py`.

An unimplemented class for SQL queries is already in the file as an example:

```python
class SqlQuery(Query):
    @property
    def _date_query(self):
        raise NotImplementedError()

    @property
    def _count_query(self):
        raise NotImplementedError()

    def run(self):
        raise NotImplementedError()
```

If you add a new class, you'll have to add it to the dictionary in `Query.new()` method to make it available as a configurable option.

If you do this, please submit a pull request! Contributions are always welcome.


# Testing
_Test coverage is currently extremely limited._

To run the tests in this extension, there is a Docker compose configuration available in this
repository to make it easy.

To run the tests against ckan 2.9.x on Python2:

1. Build the required images
```bash
docker-compose build
```

2. Then run the tests.
   The root of the repository is mounted into the ckan container as a volume by the Docker compose
   configuration, so you should only need to rebuild the ckan image if you change the extension's
   dependencies.
```bash
docker-compose run ckan
```

The ckan image uses the Dockerfile in the `docker/` folder which is based on `openknowledge/ckan-dev:2.9-py2`.
